How Does a Bike-Share Navigate Speedy Success?


A great case study will include the following:


Introduction: Make sure to state the purpose of the case study. This includes what the scenario is and an explanation on how it relates to a real-world obstacle. Feel free to note any assumptions or theories you might have, depending on the information provided. 
Problems: You need to identify what the major problems are, explain how you have analyzed the problem, and present any facts you are using to support your findings.
Solutions: Outline a solution that would alleviate the problem and have a few alternatives in mind to show that you have given the case study considerable thought. Don’t forget to include pros and cons for each solution.
Conclusion: End your presentation by summarizing key takeaways of all the problem-solving you conducted, highlighting what you have learned from this.
Next steps: Choose the best solution and propose recommendations for the client or business to take. Explain why you made your choice and how this will affect the scenario positively. Be specific and include what needs to be done, who should enforce it, and when.

Scenario

I’m a junior data analyst working in the marketing analyst team at Cyclistic, a bike-share company in Chicago. The director of marketing believes the company’s future success depends on maximizing the number of annual memberships. Therefore, my team wants to understand how casual riders and annual members use Cyclistic bikes differently. From these insights, my team will design a new marketing strategy to convert casual riders into annual members. But first, Cyclistic executives must approve my recommendations, so they must be backed up with compelling data insights and professional data visualizations.

Characters and teams

● Cyclistic: A bike-share program that features more than 5,800 bicycles and 600 docking stations. Cyclistic sets itself apart by also offering reclining bikes, hand tricycles, and cargo bikes, making bike-share more inclusive to people with disabilities and riders who can’t use a standard two-wheeled bike. The majority of riders opt for traditional bikes; about 8% of riders use the assistive options. Cyclistic users are more likely to ride for leisure, but about 30% use them to commute to work each day.

● Lily Moreno: The director of marketing and my manager. Moreno is responsible for the development of campaigns and initiatives to promote the bike-share program. These may include email, social media, and other channels.

● Cyclistic marketing analytics team: A team of data analysts who are responsible for collecting, analyzing, and reporting data that helps guide Cyclistic marketing strategy. I joined this team six months ago and have been busy learning about Cyclistic’s mission and business goals — as well as how I, as a junior data analyst, can help Cyclistic achieve them.

● Cyclistic executive team: The notoriously detail-oriented executive team will decide whether to approve the recommended marketing program.


About the company

In 2016, Cyclistic launched a successful bike-share offering. Since then, the program has grown to a fleet of 5,824 bicycles that are geotracked and locked into a network of 692 stations across Chicago. The bikes can be unlocked from one station and returned to any other station in the system anytime.

Until now, Cyclistic’s marketing strategy relied on building general awareness and appealing to broad consumer segments. One approach that helped make these things possible was the flexibility of its pricing plans: single-ride passes, full-day passes, and annual memberships. Customers who purchase single-ride or full-day passes are referred to as casual riders. Customers who purchase annual memberships are Cyclistic members.

Cyclistic’s finance analysts have concluded that annual members are much more profitable than casual riders. Although the pricing flexibility helps Cyclistic attract more customers, Moreno believes that maximizing the number of annual members will be key to future growth. Rather than creating a marketing campaign that targets all-new customers, Moreno believes there is a very good chance to convert casual riders into members. She notes that casual riders are already aware of the Cyclistic program and have chosen Cyclistic for their mobility needs.

Moreno has set a clear goal: Design marketing strategies aimed at converting casual riders into annual members. In order to do that, however, the marketing analyst team needs to better understand how annual members and casual riders differ, why casual riders would buy a membership, and how digital media could affect their marketing tactics. Moreno and her team are interested in analyzing the Cyclistic historical bike trip data to identify trends.




Ask 

Three questions will guide the future marketing program: 

1. How do annual members and casual riders use Cyclistic bikes differently?
2. Why would casual riders buy Cyclistic annual memberships?
3. How can Cyclistic use digital media to influence casual riders to become members?

Business task is to analyze data and understand how do annual members and casual riders use Cyclistic bikes differently. To figure out if we can use that insights in designing marketing strategies aimed at converting casual riders into annual members.

The business task is to understand how annual members and casual riders use Cyclistic bikes differently. This involves analyzing the historical bike trip data to uncover patterns and differences in usage between these two user groups.


(Context) Until now, Cyclistic’s marketing strategy relied on building general awareness and appealing to broad consumer segments. Cyclistic’s finance analysts have concluded that annual members are much more profitable than casual riders. Although the pricing flexibility helps Cyclistic attract more customers, Moreno believes that maximizing the number of annual members will be key to future growth.



The first notes:

The director of marketing believes the company’s future success depends on maximizing the number of annual memberships.
Therefore, the team of data analysts wants to understand how casual riders and annual members use Cyclistic bikes differently.
The goal is to get insights from data to design a new marketing strategy to convert casual riders into annual members.
The derivatives are recommendations with compelling data insights and professional data visualizations for Cyclistic executives.



Consider Key Stakeholders:
Lily Moreno (Director of Marketing and Manager):
She is interested in this data to design effective marketing strategies.
Her goal is to maximize the number of annual memberships for the company's future success.
Cyclistic Marketing Analytics Team:
Responsible for collecting, analyzing, and reporting data to guide the marketing strategy.
They will be directly involved in the analysis and interpretation of the bike trip data.
Cyclistic Executive Team:
They are the decision-makers who will approve or reject the recommended marketing program.
They need comprehensive and compelling insights to support decision-making.
Cyclistic Finance Analysts:
Have concluded that annual members are more profitable than casual riders.
The analysis will provide data-backed insights into the profitability of different customer segments.
Casual Riders and Annual Members:
Understanding their usage patterns is crucial to tailor marketing strategies that encourage casual riders to become annual members.
Digital Media Team (potentially):
Depending on the findings, insights may guide the digital media team on how to target and influence casual riders effectively.





Problem statement:

The problem of
complex process of organizing games.
Affects
players and organizers.
The impact of which is
that players are limited in their ability to play with a comfortable schedule. Organizers have to spend a lot of work organizing the games.
The successful solution would provide
players have several options to play every day. Rational process of organizing the games.




Prepare
You will use Cyclistic’s historical trip data to analyze and identify trends. Download the Cyclistic trip data here. (Note: The datasets have a different name because Cyclistic is a fictional company. For the purposes of this case study, the datasets are appropriate and will enable you to answer the business questions. The data has been made available by Motivate International Inc. under this license.) You can choose to work with an entire year of data, or just one quarter of a year. If you are working in Google Sheets, there are some files that might be too large to view. This is public data that you can use to explore how different customer types are using Cyclistic bikes. But note that data-privacy issues prohibit you from using riders’ personally identifiable information. This means that you won’t be able to connect pass purchases to credit card numbers to determine if casual riders live in the Cyclistic service area or if they have purchased multiple single passes.


Steps:

I downloaded data of the last 10 months from January to October 2023 to my PC. Each month in the separate Zip file.
Created a new project in Big Quarry. Created a new data set, cyclistic_tripdata. Unpacked and loaded each data set to Big Quarry.
